doc/user: Init data apps quickstart (#16533)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/quickstarts/apps.md

    parent: 'quickstarts'
    weight: 30
    name: 'Data Applications'
aliases:
  - /demos/data-applications
---

In this quickstart, you'll build the analytics for an eCommerce sales dashboard that queries Materialize.
At the end of this guide, you'll have the chance to explore an eCommerce data application querying against your code.

The key concepts present in this quickstart will also apply to many other projects:

* [Sources](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-source/load-generator/)
* [Materialized views](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-materialized-view/)
* [Subscriptions](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/subscribe/)

### Prepare the environment

1. Set up a [Materialize account.](/register)

1. [Install psql and connect](https://materialize.com/docs/get-started/#connect) to Materialize.

### Create the sources

Materialize provides public Kafka topics for its users to use as a source. The Kafka topics contain data from a fictional eCommerce and receive updates every second. You will use the data in them to build the analytics.

1. In your `psql` terminal, create a new schema:

    ```sql
    CREATE SCHEMA shop;
    ```
1. Create the connection:

    ```sql

>     CREATE CONNECTION shop.kafka_conn TO KAFKA (BROKER 'localhost:9092');

Reviewer: I think that we could also mention the confluent schema registry connection here as well.

Author: Correct too!

        updated_at TIMESTAMP
    );

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS shop.purchases (
        id INT,
        user_id BIGINT,
        item_id BIGINT,
        status INT,
        quantity INT,
        purchase_price INT,
        created_at TIMESTAMP,
        updated_at TIMESTAMP
    );

    INSERT INTO shop.users VALUES (1, 'random@email.com', true, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    INSERT INTO shop.items VALUES (1, 'Random Random', 'Category', 230, 3, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    INSERT INTO shop.purchases VALUES (1, 1, 1, 1, 3, 10, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    ``` -->

    ```sql
    CREATE SOURCE purchases
    FROM KAFKA BROKER 'kafka:9092' TOPIC 'mysql.shop.purchases'
    FORMAT AVRO USING CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY 'http://schema-registry:8081'
    ENVELOPE DEBEZIUM;

    CREATE SOURCE items
    FROM KAFKA BROKER 'kafka:9092' TOPIC 'mysql.shop.items'
    FORMAT AVRO USING CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY 'http://schema-registry:8081'
    ENVELOPE DEBEZIUM;

    CREATE SOURCE users
    FROM KAFKA BROKER 'kafka:9092' TOPIC 'mysql.shop.users'
    FORMAT AVRO USING CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY 'http://schema-registry:8081'

>     ENVELOPE DEBEZIUM;

Author: Correct. I saw it immediately after adding the review! 😂 

Thank you!

---
title: "Data Applications"
description: "Data Applications"
menu:
  main:
    parent: 'quickstarts'
    weight: 30
    name: 'Data Applications'
draft: true
aliases:
  - /demos/data-applications
---

In this quickstart, you'll build the analytics for an eCommerce sales dashboard that queries Materialize.

> At the end of this guide, you'll have the chance to explore an eCommerce data application querying against your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end of this guide, you'll have the chance to explore an eCommerce data application querying against your Materialize region.
```

The key concepts present in this quickstart will also apply to many other projects:

* [Sources](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-source/load-generator/)
* [Materialized views](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/create-materialized-view/)
* [Subscriptions](https://materialize.com/docs/sql/subscribe/)

### Prepare the environment

1. Set up a [Materialize account.](/register)

1. [Install psql and connect](https://materialize.com/docs/get-started/#connect) to Materialize.

### Create the sources

> Materialize provides public Kafka topics and a Confluent Schema Registry for its users. The Kafka topics contain data from a fictional eCommerce and receive updates every second. You will use the data in them to build the analytics for the dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Materialize provides public Kafka topics and a Confluent Schema Registry for its users. The Kafka topics contain data from a fictional eCommerce website and receive updates every second. You will use this sample data to feed an embedded analytics dashboard.
```

> 1. In your `psql` terminal, create a new schema:

Reviewer 2: Echoing the feedback in #16803:

> I'm thinking: should we promote the creation of a cluster here, rather than a schema? To double down on the concept.

    ```sql
    CREATE SCHEMA shop;
    ```

> 1. Create the connection to the Confluent Schema Registry:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create [a connection](/sql/create-connection/#confluent-schema-registry) to the Confluent Schema Registry:
```

    ```sql
    CREATE SECRET IF NOT EXISTS shop.csr_username AS '<TBD>';
    CREATE SECRET IF NOT EXISTS shop.csr_password AS '<TBD>';

    CREATE CONNECTION shop.csr_basic_http
    FOR CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY
    URL '<TBD>',
    USERNAME = SECRET csr_username,
    PASSWORD = SECRET csr_password;
    ```

> 1. Create the connection to the Kafka broker:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create [a connection](/sql/create-connection/#kafka) to the Kafka broker:
```

1. Create the sources, one per Kafka topic:
    <!-- ```sql
    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS shop.users (
        id INT,
        email TEXT,
        is_vip BOOLEAN,
        created_at TIMESTAMP,
        updated_at TIMESTAMP
    );

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS shop.items (
        id INT,
        name TEXT,
        category TEXT,
        price INT,
        inventory INT,
        inventory_updated_at TIMESTAMP,
        created_at TIMESTAMP,
        updated_at TIMESTAMP
    );

    CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS shop.purchases (
        id INT,
        user_id BIGINT,
        item_id BIGINT,
        status INT,
        quantity INT,
        purchase_price INT,
        created_at TIMESTAMP,
        updated_at TIMESTAMP
    );

    INSERT INTO shop.users VALUES (1, 'random@email.com', true, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    INSERT INTO shop.items VALUES (1, 'Random Random', 'Category', 230, 3, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    INSERT INTO shop.purchases VALUES (1, 1, 1, 1, 3, 10, current_timestamp(), current_timestamp());
    ``` -->

    ```sql
    CREATE SOURCE purchases
    FROM KAFKA CONNECTION shop.kafka_connection (TOPIC 'purchases')

>     FORMAT AVRO USING CONFLUENT SCHEMA REGISTRY CONNECTION shop.csr_basic_http

Reviewer 2: These are missing `ENVELOPE DEBEZIUM`.

        die($e->getMessage());
    }
}

$connection = connect('MATERIALIZE_HOST', 6875, 'materialize', 'MATERIALIZE_USERNAME', 'MATERIALIZE_PASSWORD');

$sql = 'SELECT * FROM shop.best_sellers';
$statement = $connection->query($sql);

while (($row = $statement->fetch(PDO::FETCH_ASSOC)) !== false) {
    var_dump($row);
}
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "Python">}}

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3

import psycopg2
import sys

dsn = "user=MATERIALIZE_USERNAME password=MATERIALIZE_PASSWORD host=MATERIALIZE_HOST port=6875 dbname=materialize sslmode=require"
conn = psycopg2.connect(dsn)

with conn.cursor() as cur:
    cur.execute("SELECT * FROM shop.best_sellers;")
    for row in cur:
        print(row)
```

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Ruby">}}

```ruby
require 'pg'

conn = PG.connect(host:"MATERIALIZE_HOST", port: 6875, user: "MATERIALIZE_USERNAME", password: "MATERIALIZE_PASSWORD")

res  = conn.exec('SELECT * FROM shop.best_sellers;')

res.each do |row|
  puts row
end
```

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Explore an actual data application

The materialized views you have running allow multiple services and applications to access the latest analytic results with little effort from Materialize.

> Insert your credentials [here](https://materialize-embedded-analytics.vercel.app/) to explore your work powering an eCommerce's analytic dashboard!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Authenticate using your credentials [here](https://materialize-embedded-analytics.vercel.app/) to explore your work powering an eCommerce's analytic dashboard!
```
